Update multinode setup page(s) (#525)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: getting-started/setup-multi-node-basic.md

# Set up multi-node TimescaleDB [](basic-multi-node-setup)

> A multi-node TimescaleDB implementation consists of: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multi-node TimescaleDB system consists of: 
```

- One access node to handle ingest, data routing and act as an entry 
point for user access; 
- One or more data nodes to store and organize distributed data.     

All nodes begin as single-node TimescaleDBs, i.e., hosts with a running 
PostgreSQL instance and a loaded TimescaleDB extension.  More detail on 
the architecture can be found [here][architecture]. The steps for 
creating a basic multi-node setup are as follows:

## Basic setup
1. Configure data nodes for communication with the access node
1. Initialize data nodes from the access node 

### Prerequisites
- One PostgreSQL instance to act as an access node
- One or more PostgreSQL instances to act as data nodes
- TimescaleDB [installed][install] and [set up][setup] on all instances
- Access to a superuser role (e.g. `postgres`) on all instances

### 1. Configure data nodes for node-to-node communication
To enable communication between the access node and the data node(s), the 
underlying PostgreSQL instances for each data node must be configured to 

> authorize external communication.  The simplest way is to use "trust" 
> authentication which provides unencumbered client access to the instances.

Reviewer: I would avoid saying "external communication" here as it sounds as if one must accept connections from outside the internal network.

```suggestion
authorize user connections from the access node.  The simplest way is to use "trust" 
authentication which allows the access node to connect and start sessions on data nodes on behalf of any user in the database.
```

This method must be applied to each PostgreSQL instance intended to host 
a data node.

> >:WARNING: This authentication method allows insecure access to all 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>:WARNING: "Trust" authentication method allows insecure access to all 
```

instances.  For production implementations, please use more secure 
methods of authentication (see [advanced setup][] for examples).

#### Edit authentication configuration file
Client authentication for PostgreSQL instances is usually configured in 
the `pg_hba.conf`([reference doc][postgresql-hba]) file located in the 
data directory.  If the file is not located there, access the instance
(psql) and execute the command:

```sql
SHOW hba_file;
``` 

To enable "trust" authentication, add a line to `pg_hba.conf` to allow the
`postgres` superuser to access the instance:

```
# TYPE  DATABASE  USER      ADDRESS       METHOD

> host    all       postgres  {instance_ip}  trust

Reviewer: Allow "all" users, or otherwise only `postgres` user will be able to connect.

```suggestion
host    all       all  {access_node}  trust
```

```

> where `instance_ip` is the ip address for the respective instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where `access_node` is the host name or IP address for the access node.
```

#### Edit main configuration
It is necessary to change the parameter `max_prepared_transactions` to a 
non-zero value if it hasn't been changed already.  The recommended value 

> is 150.The parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`, typically in the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is 150. The parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`, typically in the 
```

> data directory.  If it isn't there, access the instance(psql) and get the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data directory.  If it isn't there, access the instance (psql) and get the 
```

path with:
```
SHOW config_file;
```

##### Reload server configuration

To reload the server configuration, you can use the following command
on the data node:

```
pg_ctl reload
```

### 2. Initialize data nodes from the access node

> From within the access node instance(psql), use the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From within the access node instance (psql), use the command:
```

```sql

> SELECT add_data_node('{node_name}', host => '{node_ip_address}');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT add_data_node('{node_name}', host => '{data_node_address}');
```

```

> `{node_name}` should be a unique name for the node.  `{node_ip_address}` 
> is the ip address for the node (host and port, if necessary).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`{node_name}` should be a unique name for the node.  `{data_node_address}` 
is the host name or IP address of the data node.
```

The system should be up and running at this point, ready to be used.

---
## Next steps
To start working with the system, you can look at documentation for [distributed hypertables][].

To further configure the system (set up secure node-to-node communication, add 

> additional users/roles) see [advanced setup][].

Reviewer: Maybe I missed it, but I didn't see anything about setting up additional users under "Advanced setup". I would expect to see something about using `distributed_exec` to create roles, etc.

## Basic setup
1. Configure data nodes for communication with the access node
1. Initialize data nodes from the access node 

### Prerequisites
- One PostgreSQL instance to act as an access node
- One or more PostgreSQL instances to act as data nodes
- TimescaleDB [installed][install] and [set up][setup] on all nodes
- Access to a superuser role (e.g. `postgres`) on all nodes

### 1. Configure data nodes for node-to-node communication
To enable communication between the access node and the data node(s), the
data node must be configured to authorize connections from the access node.  The 
simplest way is to use "trust" authentication which provides unencumbered client 
access to the nodes. This method must be applied to every data node.

>:WARNING: The "trust" authentication method allows insecure access to all 
nodes.  For production implementations, please use more secure 
methods of authentication (see [advanced setup][] for examples).

#### Edit authentication configuration file on data nodes
Client authentication is usually configured in the `pg_hba.conf`([reference doc]
[postgresql-hba]) file located in the data directory.  If the file is not located 

> there, access the instance (psql) and execute the command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
there, connect to the instance using `psql` and execute the command:
```

```sql
SHOW hba_file;
``` 

To enable "trust" authentication, add a line to `pg_hba.conf` to allow the
access to the instance:

```

> # TYPE  DATABASE  USER  ADDRESS         METHOD
> host    all       all   {access_node_ip}   trust

Reviewer 2: Suggest to use a TEST-NET address instead of a replaceable, since you need to repeat it below anyway.
```suggestion
# TYPE  DATABASE  USER  ADDRESS         METHOD
host    all       all   192.0.2.20   trust
```

```

> where `{access_node_ip}` is the ip address for the access node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
where `192.0.2.20` is the IP-address for the access node.
```

#### Edit main configuration
It is necessary to change the parameter `max_prepared_transactions` to a 
non-zero value if it hasn't been changed already ('150' is recommended). The 
parameter is located in `postgresql.conf`, typically in the data directory. If it 

> isn't there, access the node (psql) and get the path with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
isn't there, connect to the access the node using `psql` and get the path with:
```

```
SHOW config_file;
```

##### Reload server configuration

To reload the server configuration, you can use the following command
on the data node:

```
pg_ctl reload
```

### 2. Initialize data nodes from the access node
From within the access node (psql), use the command:

```sql
SELECT add_data_node('{node_name}', host => '{data_node_address}');
```

`{node_name}` should be a unique name for the node. `{data_node_address}` 

> is the host name or IP address of the data node.

Reviewer 2: Since you have to repeat the replaceable anyway, it might be better to use real examples. Easier to follow.
